so what are we what are we calling you
today buddy how am i how Michael Milo is
my name okay so Milo tell me a little
bit about what we're talking about today
um well I am a huge fan of yours and I
just wanted to bounce kind of my ego off
of you and see if you have anything to
say pretty much as soon as I started
like as soon as you popped up in my
recommended videos on YouTube you just
everything he was saying was really
resonating with me and it's really
surreal that like it's coming to the
point where I'm actually talking with
you so I guess we can talk about
cannabis addiction and how I'm dealing
with that that goes a lot in that's kind
of wrapped up with a lot of my other
vices and and kind of issues with
depression and and mental illness and
such sure it's all kind of a big it's a
big [ __ ] tangled ball of yeah yeah
I'm inside shits do yeah it really is
man I'm so sorry that you know you're
struggling with a lot of stuff that's
the way I see it I mean I think you know
if I can just monologue or soapbox for a
second I like this is what I see right
so and I think this is where psychiatry
actually Falls a little bit short
because what psychiatry does is it takes
a person like you and we give you like
half a dozen diagnoses right we'll say
that you've got like a DD and you've got
anxiety and depression and and cannabis
use disorder and and stuff like that but
I think then you know the more I work
with people like I just don't think that
they've got like four separate disease
processes random like it's like one it's
like one tangled ball of something and
then it kind of like likes like I almost
think that our psychic psychiatric
diagnoses are symptoms they're not
actually like
diseases I mean not yet of all things
but some of them really are disease
processes but yeah so I kind of echo
what you're saying about it sort of
being tangled together so let's try to
untangle it well the other thing is you
said you wanted to bounce your ego off
of me yeah
what does that mean oh you cut out a
little bit you hear me yeah I mean I
just want to have like here's somebody
else's especially professionals take on
[Music]
though hello can you hear me yeah can
you hear me yeah did the video cut out
for you nope I'm fine okay um I don't
know I mean like you know who I am who I
think I am was like just a persona okay
and it would be interesting to hear
somebody else's kind of professional
opinion on what I've got going on and
I've heard you you know call a lot of
other people out are on kind of [ __ ]
and like devices like you go I see
devices of sort so do you think actually
can you hold on a second I'm just gonna
shut a door I'll be right back
sure
[Music]
it's like night and day when kids are
back from the playground yeah so so okay
so I see so it sounds like you maybe
suspect that your ego is pretty active
yeah oh yes oh yeah so I'm gonna give
twitch chat and assignment
okay so we're so one of the things that
I want to think I want to try to teach
you guys is to be like present and pay
attention to what you see in other
people and what you'd see in yourselves
so I'm gonna point some of this stuff
out to you Milo but just so that can
kind of follow along I want you guys to
kind of pay attention to when you think
Milo's ego is speaking and when his ego
is not speaking so a quick rundown so
Milo since you use the word ego it
sounds like you've been watching our
stuff so what's your understanding of
what ego is let's start there it's the
thing that isn't your true self and it's
your you're kind of biologically and
socially cultivated organism that uses
survival techniques to stay alive
okay so what I want so I'm gonna give
you guys a couple of clues to notice
when the ego is running Milo's mind okay
and the first thing that we're gonna
look for is comparisons so when we
anytime our mind compares us to someone
else that's usually a sign of ego I mean
I say usually so you know if if if Milo
says something like oh other people are
able to do this but I'm not able to do
this that's like a comparison so keep an
eye out for ego anytime the other thing
that the ego tends to do is pump
ourselves up and put other people down
so I'm not really expecting this from
you but if you start to you know talk
about how other people are stupid or
things like that that's likely to be ego
does that make sense
mm-hmm okay so let's just kind of keep
track and if you guys notice the ego
is going on you know just mention it in
chat why let's say you know steer clear
of chat if you can during the duration
of our our talk yeah I'm not watching
you know okay awesome so let's let's
kind of dive right in
so tell me a little bit I mean you want
to start with cannabis or you mentioned
other vices or like where how do we
start to untangle this ball of of the
shits - well he started with video games
definitely tell me about yeah so like a
lot of people you talk to I was a user
video games for a really really young
age how young and probably like seven
okay and what did you play the first
game that I haven't really really got
into was a game called dungeon siege
which was like kind of a Diablo esque
top-down like action RPG thing and yeah
just kind of evolved there I played a
lot of Warcraft 3 throughout the years I
still play that one what do you think
about remastered it's pretty upsetting
yeah pretty dead ok yeah what's up
well to be honest like I'm really not
super concerned with Blizzard at all
anymore just because of how they treated
the whole protests in China thing so
it's shitty but I could be happy like
never hurt just again a blizzard product
again yeah yeah but I didn't get reforge
because I honestly don't even think my
computer could handle it is another
thing because I have a really shitty
computer but
just heard that the servers were
crashing all the time and had just a
myriad of other issues yeah yeah
do you still game now yeah what do you
play
Warcraft 3 I did work I thought they
shut it down the old one you know it's
like um yeah it's it still works
basically Oh interesting okay what race
Steve is just it's just like like a
limited it's the same game reforged in
the classic one mm-hmm
yeah what race or races do you play like
you play like regular games where you
play custom maps mostly custom maps but
when I am playing regular games I
usually pick work you know Blademaster
or TC awesome and I was a bigger than
dead player under the sickest book yeah
man I used to love going glitch first
but it wasn't very good I just wish I
heard enough but yeah cool yeah and I
played a lot of dota like back in the
day like one or three but the og yeah
the original mm-hmm so cool so and and
what are you how are you spending your
most of your time nowadays um well one
thing that's always been a huge passion
for me has been music and this kind of
so I've been kind of getting my [ __ ]
together lately
in a positive way um like as of maybe
like December or January 2020 and one
thing that's come with that is a huge
increase in my time spent playing guitar
and practicing music which has which has
always been like kind of sidelined by a
video game addiction and cannabis usage
as well sure which I helped me
understand what changed in December
January why are you getting your ship to
No um I read this book called atomic
habits mm-hmm I don't remember who it's
by
but don't ever write here and it just
kind of talked about how willpower is
overrated and and the real way to let
you talk it they broke down the science
of building good habits and breaking bad
habits and why we naturally build bad
habits and and don't stick with good
habits yeah and I just kind of took the
principles from that book and was able
to establish a pretty consistent so I've
been doing push-ups every day I've been
meditating every day Wow just about this
this year yeah and like I also I'm no
long I'm not a smoker anymore but that
was something that I stopped in about
September and I had like wanted to to no
longer be a can of a smoker for a long
time at that point I felt that it was
being really destructive on my life
how so I felt like it was just kind of
really messing with my mental faculties
in what way like have you heard the term
the brain fog yeah I fell just I felt
just incredibly mentally slow and like
dumber than I am and
I I try to not like identify this
identify with this anymore but my
intelligence has always been like a
really important part of my life you
know and I and I valued being smart or
whatever which i think is a school which
i think is a silly arbitrary thing at
this point but but it was one of the few
things that I thought I really had going
for me in cannabis was just seriously
missing yeah so Milo you're making my
job harder man you know why it's like
I've noticed this trend recently like I
don't know if other people have noticed
this but like people are like doing
better and and when we started streaming
we were getting absolute train wrecks
mm-hmm
and you talk about the shit's too but
here I'm talking about like so I thought
we were talking about cannabis addiction
sounds like you stop smoking pot like
six months ago yeah right and and we're
talking about you're talking about
atomic habits you're talking about
push-ups every day you're talking about
playing guitar which is awesome and I
love to continue supporting you it's
just I'm noticing like a trend and I'm
not just sure if it's like a selection
bias or what but it sounds like people
are actually starting to make changes in
their life and it sounds like you mean
people in your sphere like people that
you were talking to and people and stuff
yeah mm-hmm
what do you think about that I think
maybe you should take that as a sign
that you are making a huge impact in
people's lives I will I would love to
take that as a sign but it also sounds
like you started you your your journey
started before I ever showed up right
yeah certainly right so I'd love to take
credit for transforming your life but I
think actually at case-in-point for
everyone who's watching
I don't transform lives right so Milo's
been working at it for a while and maybe
we can talk a little bit more and
understand a little bit
but I I'm beginning to notice a slight
shift in terms of I'd certainly like to
help you I'm happy to but I think I'm
noticing that actually Milo you may be
able to so it used to be that like you
are the person getting healed and I was
the healer but I think you've leveled up
like you skilled up some healing skills
yourself right like because you're
already and you can actually help people
by telling us and sharing with us like
what was different one year ago and like
what's different today that I agree with
that and I would love to yeah to do that
so so let's just kind of keep that in
mind I think let's just take let's go
back though and try to understand a
little bit about more about cannabis but
I just wanted to kind of point out that
I think things are changing here you
know like yeah yeah I'm working on it
yeah good for you dude so tell me a
little bit about when you started using
pot um I think the first time was either
the summer of my freshman year of high
school or the summer before that I can't
remember okay and it was like a lot of
people say they don't get high the first
time mm-hmm because if your cannabinoid
receptors aren't totally awake or
something but that was not the case for
me and it was a super excellent
experience I enjoyed it a lot
and as I kind of slowly started to get
more into it I would do it maybe like
once a month my first couple years of
high school and then I increased a
little bit after high school and then
after I mean in my junior and senior
year and then after high school I really
started ramping it up but during high
school I really saw it as a tool to kind
of discover myself because at the time I
was really really
excuse me I was really wrapped up in
another popularity hierarchy sure and I
just wanted to like hang out with the
cool kids and I was so upset that you
know I wasn't like what are these kids
have that I don't that that makes them
you know cool popular and liked and we
not and smoking cannabis kind of helped
me like understand that like I'm okay
with myself and it's okay to to be to be
me and I don't need other people's
approval basically and Wow that that
helped me kind of in like my senior year
really really how does can't just enjoy
myself I'm not worrying about that kind
of thing how does cannabis help like
free you from those worries do you
remember that um I think it just it made
me super introspective and that
introspection brought a lot of insight
and I had always until it started like
really [ __ ] up my life I had always
really thought that cannabis was a very
useful tool in that way and I still do
think like I think for people who don't
have like addictive tendencies I think
it can be a very very it can be a tool
definitely how do you know if you have
addictive tendencies if if your
consumption of something is becomes
problematic and difficult to stop I
would say sure so would you say that you
had addictive tendencies in high school
not at all no I used it quite
infrequently and
it was always nothing but positive
during that time yeah okay
I'm just gonna try to organize things
for a second mm-hmm
so Milan once again I'm kind of
recalibrating a little bit about what
this discussion is so a lot of times
when people come here my primary goal is
to help them and if we're talking about
cannabis addiction and you haven't
really smoked for six months I'm sort of
changing a little bit about what we're
talking about right so I'm wondering if
what would be better is actually four so
I still want to help you we can kind of
talk more if there's something I mean is
there some kind of challenge or some
issue that you have that I can help with
well the cannabis addiction I don't know
if I said this earlier it completely
intertwined with my video game addiction
and just internet addiction and so on
[Music]
yeah and that's something that's like
quitting six months ago and like still
having a lot of the problems that I
thought that I like attributed to
cannabis consumption I realized that the
bigger problem was video game addiction
which was something that was a problem
long before I ever smoked for the first
time okay
all right so we're gonna talk about that
we're gonna talk about the rest of the
you know ingredients of the shits do and
then what I'd like to do maybe a little
bit more towards like let's say the end
is Milo since you've kind of come a long
way what I think could be useful is for
us to use some of your experiences is
kind of examples for broader principles
that are more applicable like more
broadly applicable so how can we
understand
general things about identity and ego
and like how cannabis interacts with
those for example you say that cannabis
made you more introspective when through
that introspective you gained insights
and through those insights you became
less concerned about popularity mm-hmm
the other interesting thing is I don't
know if people caught this or not but
you when you were describing your high
school experience that's an ego
experience because you asked yourself
the question why are those kids popular
and I am yeah totally so that's an ego
point now the interesting thing is that
you attribute your growth in that way
through the insight you gained from
cannabis I don't think it was actually
an insight that you gained from cannabis
because I don't know if you guys have
figured this out or not you have a lot
of insights when you're on cannabis but
rarely does your life change from them
right anyway your your what do you think
well I mean if I had an insight due to
the fact that I was on cannabis and it
changed my life which it did by making
me give less of a [ __ ] about the
popularity conflicts wouldn't that mean
that it was directly related to it would
suggest so but I think actually the
important thing is not the insight you
had I think the important thing this is
exactly what I'm talking about so I
think the important thing is that
instead of your mind focus on the
focusing on the external your mind began
focusing on the internal I don't think
it was the insight that you had I think
it was the introspection the act of
introspecting shifts what you're like
your mind is focusing on so I want you
to think about your mind like a
spotlight and when you're in high school
and you're comparing yourself to other
people you're putting the spotlight on
them and how you're not like them and
when you introspect you're putting the
spotlight on yourself and the more that
you put the spotlight on yourself the
less comparison naturally happens does
that make sense
like if I'm on an island and there's
nothing for me to compare myself to
it's very difficult for my ego to exist
because my mind cannot externalize and
make comparisons so this is exactly my
point is that I think a lot of people
believe that it's the insight from the
introspection but what I'm really
curious about and what I would encourage
you to explore is whether it is the
insight from introspection or it is the
act of introspection in and of itself
that reduces ego because if we look at
something like atomic habits I think the
reason that you're able to change is not
because you gain some information but
once again the the atomic habits book
was a trigger for you to introspect and
you may have gained some things through
that introspection but I think the key
thing here if we look at the common
element between how you've changed from
atomic habits and how you've changed
from cannabis you're gaining different
insights fine but the key element here
is that your focus is on reflection and
introspection and that's where the money
is that's my hypothesis that I'm putting
forward you're entitled to agree or
disagree but I I partially agree I think
that the external factor of a book or a
drug or whatever can be something to
direct that spotlight and I definitely
think that there's the potential to to
just look inwardly and change I think
that's kind of what like meditation
leads to but I'm not sure if it's I
think it's like like a sprinkler versus
a pressure washer way towards ways
directing your focus with like a book or
something or some kind of frame of
thought is more concentrated in a
pressure washer as opposed to just
sitting with yourself and being
introspective and like allowing
whatever thoughts to arise I completely
agree with you so I completely agree
with that you're saying that an external
tool can really focus your introspection
and allow you to gain greater insights
through that focused in introspection
that's what you're saying right yeah if
you just sit there and you just kind of
like listen to your thoughts that's like
a sprinkler and you're not gonna get
anything done I completely agree with
you the question still remains just
because it allows you to focus your
spotlight is it the drug itself or is it
the act of focusing internally which one
is responsible so I agree that the drug
allows you to focus internally more
easily but then the question becomes if
it's the focusing internally that's
actually important can you train
yourself can you take a sprinkler and
turn it into a garden hose and then
furthermore can you cover a part of the
garden hose so you have a high-pressure
amount of water right can you actually
train yourself to do what the drug does
for you I think with immense immense
concentration and dedication I
completely agree with you there as well
like the thing that comes to mind is I
think it was with destiny you were
talking about the analogy with
psychedelics of like taking a helicopter
to the top of a mountain rushes you know
just trekking up the whole mountain but
it's the same thing either way no I I
feel like the same analogy applies here
in terms of kind of one is without
external stimulus and there's a much
more long-term slow-moving laborious
process absolutely agree few hundred
hours that man so just kind of kind of
going back to your narrative or your
story so
sounds like marijuana was actually quite
helpful for you in a lot of ways it was
a overwhelmingly positive experience you
actually used it to free yourself a
little bit from your ego it made high
school to be like a little bit more
comfortable because you were less bogged
down and like popularity and stuff when
did it become a problem I really started
ramping up after senior year of high
school started smoking on a weekly basis
where before I was smoking you know
maybe on a monthly or even like a five
monthly basis mm-hmm and I also started
taking dabs which it's the so beer is to
liquor as like flower bud cannabis is to
Deb's
so it's a concentrated THC oil that is
incredibly like it will just [ __ ] your
[ __ ] up it's super powerful what way
does it [ __ ] your [ __ ] up so bud is like
maybe fifteen to twenty-five or thirty
percent THC in like just throughout the
nut that's the chemical percentage dads
can get up to like 80 percent 90 percent
95 even like 99 or 100 percent THC so
it's like super super potent and you're
also not getting any of the kind of
natural even though a lot of this has
been kind of bred out in the cannabis
industry you're not getting a lot of the
kind of CBD or some of the other
chemicals that may be kind of balance
balance out the eye a little bit so
I I don't know if this is what directly
led to it but I had a I had a mental
breakdown what was diagnosed as a manic
episode in college and before that was
happening I was basically staying up all
night playing video games and just
dabbing all day and doing not much else
not going to class at all did the people
who diagnosed you with the manic episode
know what was happening before that did
you tell like do they know that you were
using dabs very heavily I don't know
okay I don't know yeah it could totally
be some some cannabis induced psychosis
which is which is part of the reason
that I sometimes doubt my diagnosis yeah
so Milo I'm gonna be very careful with
what I say okay so when members of this
conversation is to provide general
education and not diagnose or treat you
with any medical conditions so I'm gonna
make some general statements about
Diagnostics in some of my experiences
with Miss diagnosis so if we see a manic
episode like let's say someone gets
hospitalized with a manic episode we
give them a diagnosis of bipolar
disorder often times there are
evidence-based treatments for bipolar
disorder that include medications and
sometimes those medications can have
anywhere from no too heavy side effects
sometimes we are we oftentimes believe
as providers that the side effects of
the medications are worth the benefit of
preventing another manic episode mm-hmm
the really really important thing is
that sometimes manic episodes are not
caused by by bipolar disorder so bipolar
disorder is an
illness which involves periods of
depression in periods of mania or
hypomania
so the periods of depression are
characterized by weeks to months of
feeling super down having low energy
having trouble getting out of bed things
like that the periods of hypomania or
mania so let's start with hypomania are
characterized by periods of time of high
mental activity often times higher
energy often times reduced needs for
sleep despite maintaining some
relatively high function interesting
side point the the prevalence which
means how common type to bipolar
disorders and type two bipolar disorder
means hypomania so the amount of kids
who have hypomania at Harvard University
is three times the national average what
do you think about that I think
hypomania can be like very useful if you
are living in a productive world
my uncle is bp2 and he uses his
hypomania in his work and like in his
kind of hobbies and in one of his
hobbies is to create unmanned electric
like RC planes and he has like seven
World Records for the fastest and the
best things in the world because he gets
and there was hypomania and he'll just
grind yep so hypomania can feel
wonderful unfortunately generally comes
at a cost of depression afterward and
and and so the reason I'm not giving you
medical advice but what I would
encourage you to do I haven't asked you
if you're on medications or if you're in
treatment or anything I actually I'm not
interested in learning that stuff
because that becomes more of a medical
relationship but what I will tell you is
that if you are on medication or if you
were in treatment it is very important
for your providers and this is true of
everyone is very important for your
providers to know whether you are on
substances or not and to what extent you
were using substances because that can
muddy the diagnosis yeah anytime I have
a patient who has any kind of substance
use and depression
I don't truly know if they have
depression or that's the substance
that's making them depressed you can't
really make a true clean diagnosis of
depression or bipolar disorder until you
get a clean brain mm-hmm so I would
encourage you to if you were still in
treatment to share with your providers
that detail because I think it's quite
important and the reason for that is
because I would hate for people to be on
medications that they don't need to be
on yeah well I they definitely knew I
had THC in my system like when I went to
the hospital so I'm not sure how and
like I went to like three different
hospitals over the course of ten days
and did outpatient treatment and
shitbird inpatient treatment and a
little bit of outpatient treatment I'm
not sure how like all of the information
permeated throughout the entire yep
processing throughout the entire medical
community so I guess I would assume that
there was some awareness yeah so what
I'm doing yeah what I'm telling you is
that medical information getting passed
between different institutions is
[ __ ] like it's bad right so like like
it's bad so if you if you are very lucky
and you have a very thoughtful clinician
who is also not like overworked then
they may be had the time to look through
things but what I'm saying is that this
is a danger of our medical system so
once something gets slapped into your
chart like it takes a lot of effort for
someone to like take you from scratch
and not be influenced and like not do
like a thorough workup from the get-go
so they just assume that providers in
the past made good judgements which may
not be like it's and it's not a bad
assumption but you kind of get like what
happens to a lot of people especially
with mental health diagnoses because we
can't test for it right it's not like we
can do an x-ray and see if you're
bipolar or not
yeah and the other the other reason that
mental help provider to that it's not
necessarily our fault because you know
we didn't see you when you were manic so
we just have to trust the person before
that they're not a dumbass and that they
made a right diagnosis and I don't even
think that they were necessarily a
dumbass I think it can be like
presumptive mania and they could have
had a question mark the problem is that
when they send a bill to your insurance
company because they want to get paid
they can't leave a question work because
an insurance company is not going to pay
for anything if they have a plan work so
they have to label you with something in
order to get compensated and that label
sometimes carries forward and can
actually negatively impact your care
yeah so I would just encourage you if
you were still in treatment or enter
treatment in the future to you know
share this information share the extent
of your substance use so that you give
your clinician an opportunity to really
like get to know the full picture and
give you like a diagnosis from scratch
mm-hmm yeah okay sorry for that tangent
it's just I think that's a really really
important no that was helpful for people
to know because I I think it's it's
unfortunate that we just have a lot of
you know it's it's a mix of bad systems
it's a mix of like insurance and like
the medical documentation is not
actually geared towards providing
clinical care like I don't know if you
guys have ever seen your chart but it's
just like this pile of auto-populated
copy pasted [ __ ] it's not about like
thinking or clinical care it's all about
justifying because insurance companies
in order to get paid you have to like
include all kinds of information that
they want you to include so that's what
you include and then while you're
spending time including all that crap
like you don't have time to you know
write a page about what you actually
think is going on to be put into a box
yep and shake it's overlooked yep
exactly so I think as as a patient it is
very important for you to take
responsibility and not assume that you
know your providers have gone through
your chart and things
like that like and you can be respectful
about it you shouldn't assume that they
haven't you can just ask like it and
these are things unfortunately that we
don't teach kids right like so a lot of
times people get hospitalized like in
their late teens or early 20s and no one
has taught you how to talk to a provider
because you don't have what you don't
have any idea what the [ __ ] is going on
you get taken to a hospital people come
in people come out they're the experts
you're like I don't know what to do it's
very hard to advocate for yourself
because you don't even know what you're
supposed to be advocating for no one
teaches you this stuff anyway I'm gonna
get off my soapbox but you know take
care of yourself and all of you guys
should talk to your providers and if you
have concerns about your diagnosis like
it's our job and we have ethical
responsibilities we have ethical duties
to like not miss diagnose you and like
conceptualize you from scratch we owe
that to you so you should ask for it if
you think that you've been labeled with
something that isn't fair or you've been
labeled with half a dozen things by half
a dozen people chances are some of that
[ __ ] is wrong yeah one thing though
yeah this is so bad but like I get to be
on my own soapbox and complain about the
stigma of mental illness now and also
like use it hypocritically at the same
time as like that crush and there's like
an excuse for certain things let's talk
about that okay how do you use mental
illness as a crutch well it's easy to
explain like it's easy to say oh I'm not
an [ __ ]
I just bipolar yep I have a mental
illness you know what does that allow
you to do Milo it allows me to make
excuses for and not not do that crucial
introspection absolutely how does that
affect your life
I would assume it slows down the
emotional and mental maturity maturation
mm-hmm what do you think it does for you
professionally academically well
professionally and academically I'm
gonna I'm in a bit of a rut or a pit
right now so it's not doing much do you
think I don't I don't think it's
directly related to to where I'm
currently I think that has a lot to do
with just my cannabis addiction in my
video game addiction and you're making
poor decisions in college so what I'm
hearing from that statement is that you
accept responsibility for where you are
professionally and academically based on
your addictive behaviors instead of
using bipolar as an excuse yeah is that
fair to say
yeah so yeah I'm not like oh I can't get
a job because of this diagnosis it's not
like that what have you used the
diagnosis is that crutch for can you
give us an example let's see like the
main thing that comes I I wouldn't use
it for anything like seriously I don't
know drastic or dramatic like I said I
just it's mostly the only times I've
like kind of like cheesed it was
beautiful word usage taste it thank you
I have only cheesed it in like social
situations basically to like maybe like
shut somebody up who's like using
bipolar in a derogatory manner which it
is sometimes used like people say like
oh I'm so bipolar I was happy yesterday
and I'm sad
hey inside a really good way to shut
somebody up like that I think them I
think the most I use it is as an excuse
towards myself and for myself like
having this label you know it finds me
and it limits me and all these things
and and when you use it as an excuse for
yourself what do you let yourself get
away with not doing [ __ ]
like what for the most part hmm I don't
know maybe just not mentally pushing
myself or trying in in certain certain
circumstances it really so like the only
experience I've ever had that would lead
me to kind of that would seem to
substantiate the diagnosis was this one
episode which was super bad super
traumatic and a [ __ ] ton of depression
for the last like you know maybe eight
or nine years okay pretty constant over
those eight or nine years or would
fluctuate um it would it fluctuated in
like an upward trend upward being more
motion more depression so yeah
progressively got worse over eight or
nine years yeah kind of as I started
having more responsibility in life
started doing generally worse in school
started to feel lonelier and have less
friends yeah
sand at a certain point along there like
when were you diagnosed with Bipolar in
that eight or nine years stretch when
freshman year of college
and the eight or nine-year stretch that
you're describing is from when to when
I'm 23 now so like 14 or 15 okay
to to now and like three years ago
almost three years ago I think was okay
was the episode what was I saying you
were just talking about how the
depression was getting worse and worse
gradually yeah and and at some point in
that upward trend the cannabis smoking
stopped becoming like this cool fun
spiritual tool and started becoming like
a numbing agent analgesic is that the
word that is the word okay yeah yeah by
the way before we let you go remind me
to talk to you about intelligence about
what Intel that has intelligence okay
well what were you numbing what were you
using to what was it what was it numbing
I think kind of anxiety towards the
future and anxiety about
responsibilities towards the future I
had and have a very fortunate upbringing
and tons of opportunity to be a
successful person and I feel that I've
squandered a lot of that and that feels
bad man so I don't like what what do you
known that what does that mean right so
I understand that everyone who's
watching them understands that it feels
bad and they know exactly what you're
talking about but let's work
to it okay um I feel so I'm a really
kind of philosophical person and I'm
like thinking really big and really deep
and a lot of the times I feel like like
every decision made by all of my
thousands of ancestors and your
thousands of ancestors you know all the
decisions all the wars and everything
fought has led to like this moment we
are the latest addition we are like the
you know the newest model of human and
with that I feel comes a lot of
responsibility especially like I said
coming from you know a very financially
stable background where I never had to
worry about you know where the next meal
would come from or anything like that
and yeah it just feels like squandering
that is squander like the opportunities
that have been cultivated and do you
think your opportunities that you've
been given in life make your life easier
or harder you cut out there I mean where
do you feel like the opportunities
you've been given in life make it easier
or harder
um that's an interesting question
like like somebody who is who has to
struggle to survive every day is
obviously gonna have a lot of difficulty
but they're gonna have like a mental
fortitude that someone like myself is
probably not going to really have and I
think that's a very useful trait like
like there's there's kind of a downside
to security because
it makes you not really deeply
subconsciously concerned about a lot of
like survival aspects that a lot of
other people are mm-hmm
so we're gonna just dig into this a
little bit more okay so so it sounds
like you view opportunities as
advantages that you've squandered you
don't view them as handicaps what do you
mean right so like it sounds like you
feel somewhat ashamed or maybe guilty or
something like that that you have all of
this privilege and that you haven't done
something with it yeah so it sounds like
you view an opportunity as an advantage
[Music]
because we don't talk about it yeah I
suppose so
right so until we had this discussion so
if we if I say I've squandered an
opportunity like that's clearly an
advantage it's like you know we're about
to do some Game of Thrones spoilers here
so if you guys want to mute yourselves
go for it
but one of the best things that I saw at
the end of if you seen Game Thrones yeah
okay so if you one of the best the
funniest comments I heard was you know
at the end of season seven when Daenerys
has three dragons we're about to see
like how Daenerys squanders a three
dragon lead in a war right she's gonna
throw really really hard yeah so we
don't when we the word squander implies
advantage yeah so when you like beat
yourself up for squandering your
opportunities you're like oh I'm such a
[ __ ] cuz all these people like they
don't even have like the opportunities
that I have whether they be financial
whether they be an uncle who's like
actually motivated to like build cool
stuff and like win contests it sounds
like you have people in your life it's
not just financial capital it may be
some amount of like family support or
role battles or things like that so you
have a lot of opportunities and then you
blame yourself for not taking advantage
of them right so therefore opportunities
are advantages yeah duh
now the interesting thing is that when I
asked you our opportunities advantages
you kind of changed your tune a little
bit so what do I have to think about it
yes that's the point right so I want you
so like let's just let's just look at
that for a second when you say that
struggles lead to mental fortitude I
think that that's true but I think that
it's not necessarily that they lead to
mental fortitude I think struggles so
operat when you have kind of like
advantages in life I think what they
really lead to is complacency yes and
and so I think the interesting thing
about you know our people
Milo which is like twitch at and gamers
and Gen Z is that our people struggle
with motivation but if you have
struggles in life motivation
you don't need motivation because the
world is going to demand that you do
something so we think about
procrastination like you know if you
look at it like if I have 10 days to
work on an assignment where I have one
day to work on an assignment we view 10
days to work on an assignment as an
advantage as an opportunity you have so
much time you can make such a good like
you can make such a good in-depth
assignment you can do a wonderful job
but if we actually look at it the
struggle situation the person on the
struggle bus with just one day in some
ways that person's life is easier now
I'm not saying that it's easier from an
absolute sense what I'm saying is that
if we actually judge and look within
ourselves we're gonna discover some
paradoxical stuff and that external
motivator external pressures are
generally speaking what we need to
succeed and in a bizarre way if you're
given opportunities and you have
advantages in a weird way like that's
actually like more difficult because you
have to rely more on internal motivation
as opposed to external motivation
and external motivation is harder for
easier is easier for our generation than
internal motivation mm-hmm what is that
if we what do you think about all that
yeah that resonates with me that seems
accurate
I think resonate motivation maybe
shouldn't be the the goal or the like
operating factor because motivation is
something that is like fleeting
I feel like internal motivation is
discipline okay so we can more valuable
yeah so okay I'm gonna do a video about
what's motivation what's discipline and
what's willpower okay and how do those
things affect our behavior but so what
does this mean for your self judgment in
terms of the like do you feel like
you've like so you view yourself as like
having squandered opportunities right
yeah opportunities are actually like
they may not actually are having
advantages you know so I just encourage
you to rethink that and for people who
are watching also really rethink because
other people look at your life and they
see oh he's so lucky
mm-hm right and weak and and they kind
of a part of it that's a big part of it
tell me about that like that just adds
to the kind of pressure you know of of
feeling responsible I guess you know
like if you're going to if you're gonna
have all this life in these
opportunities then you should make
something out of it mmm-hmm so let me
ask you something
Wow hello um so I want to talk to you a
little bit about potential because what
I'm hearing from here is potential I
think sense to you yes like Milo you've
got so much potential man you're a smart
kid
you've got financial resources you have
you know it sounds like family that's
supportive you've got so much potential
by the way don't forget you wanted to
talk about intelligence yep
so that goes into this right cuz you're
so smart Milo you have so much potential
have people told you that yeah how does
that feel
I think it used to feel a lot different
than it does now how I did it used to
feel because I heard that when I was
little yeah and maybe that's part of
what led to like Carol coasting by and
not putting in the effort because it's
like oh I I have this advantage I don't
need to try as hard as elders you know
have you seen me smart so one of the
first youtube videos that i uploaded was
about how intelligence leads to
avoidance have you watched that yes okay
yeah if you guys haven't I think that's
probably the first video that really
resonated with a lot of people and
changed the way that they kind of looked
at themselves so I'd encourage you guys
to check that out but let's kind of come
back to you so you said that potential
used to feel different so how did it
generally feel to you when people told
you have so much potential I felt like I
was special mm-hmm and special in what
way in that I had good things coming for
me potential felt like an advantage or
promise of the future or what um I guess
I kind of looked at it like a promise
and something that was just set in stone
you know and I wouldn't have to do [ __ ]
about who would just fall into my lap
yep and looking at it that way is
probably what now makes you know after
I've become disillusioned looking at it
now is what makes me kind of almost like
reject that term and feel kind of weird
and uncomfortable when when I hear it so
let's talk about that what do you mean
by weird and uncomfortable when people
talk about your potential now what do
you feel a juxtaposition Zayn
between like what could have been and
what is like how does that make it by it
pretty disappointed sometimes kind of
hopeless okay are you lagging am i
lagging is it me
hello did stream cut out folks
oh noes okay
let's see if he comes back all right
are you guys is this useful can we just
check in with y'all wait am i lagging or
is it him lagging wait who who is
lagging yes to both were all lagging
okay [ __ ] oh we're back can you hear me
yeah see you alright okay so alright so
I was asking you cuz I'm I'm so have you
seen the video on alexithymia we may not
actually have one now that I think about
it maybe in my head I know I've talked
about it I don't think so okay oh no no
it's it's in a set of content that we
haven't uploaded yet so the other thing
is I'm digging for your feelings because
you're giving me lots of cognitive
answers mm-hmm but how does potential
feel to you now what's the feeling you
said a little bit disappointed and a
little bit hopeless what are you
disappointed in my track record I guess
yeah and and this is gonna sound kind of
weird so I'm gonna try to make a couple
points Miley you gotta let me know if
I'm being clear or not okay I'm gonna
rely on Ben so the first thing is that
you said that xpect you used to have
expectations that you could coast and
now you are disillusioned mm-hmm first
thing to understand is let's look at the
word disillusioned so in order to be
disillusioned at some point you must
have been illusioned mm-hmm does that
make sense yeah right so illusion that I
could coast yeah so like disillusion is
like the loss of an expectation and and
it's kind of like Minh interesting word
because illusion implies that it's
something false to begin with right and
if we look at sort of your situation I
think that disillusioned is a great word
because I think you had [ __ ]
so we losing you okay there we go I
think you had a false expectation about
what your life was gonna be like because
it was fed oh [ __ ] okay
your videos like strobing yeah I don't
know anyway so I think you had kind of
this illusion of what your life was
gonna be like that was based on false
expectation and so that's only going to
lead to disappointment
you guys got understands I mean I've
talked about this a thousand times right
like if you if everyone tells you that a
movie is gonna be super awesome and then
you go and you watch it what's gonna
happen like how are you gonna enjoy the
movie like what do you think your
experience is gonna be diminished
absolutely there's to live up to those
expectations so when you describe eight
to nine years of depression I don't know
that you actually have a biological
depression because that tends to be
episodic in nature what I hear from that
is actually like a further and further
disillusionment about your life that's
what I think has been going on that you
started to have expectations about what
your life was gonna look like and it was
kind of vague you just know it was gonna
be good and because Milo you're such a
smart boy oh he's such a smart boy you
know he's so clever and then life
started to like get hard for you and you
kind of didn't know how to handle that
you didn't have the mental fortitude
because things were easy for you early
on yeah you became more and more
disillusioned in life became harder and
harder and once again you were given all
these promises about how you're so smart
and you have so much potential so now we
get to the next point which is if I had
if I gave you a blueprint for a Shack
and I gave you a blueprint for a mansion
which one has more potential
I mean the the seemingly obvious answer
is the mansion is I don't ask trick
questions man I'm not trying to trick
anyone okay it's the mansion now here's
the next important question which one is
harder to build the mansion absolutely
so this is the biggest mistake that
people make about potential they think
that potential because potential is a
mansion right that's what potential is
like that very definition is a blueprint
of what you could be in life the biggest
mistake that people make is that they
think that potential makes their life
easy when in fact it makes your life
hard potential is a burden it is a
burden for greatness and it is a burden
of success but it requires so much more
effort than having low potential so if I
take someone who has cerebral palsy or
Down syndrome or has had like a
neurological injury if they add like
hypoxia during childbirth which means
that they didn't get enough air to the
brain is something like that how much
potential do I have do they have in the
traditional sense of the word probably
not very much exactly right so it's very
good that you said in the traditional
sense so if we think about what they're
cognitively capable of they can still
accomplish great things because it's not
just about your raw IQ but generally
speaking when we think about you know
what someone is capable of and we think
about IQ is like you know the bar by
which we measure and there are lots of
other bars to measure things by and you
know we think of them as quote unquote
low potential and we think about smart
quit kids as quote unquote high
potential but I want you and everyone
else to understand this the higher your
potential is the harder your road is or
not maybe harder isn't the right word
maybe longer your road is the more
you're going to have to invest in
realizing that potential right if I take
one acre of land and I say I'm gonna
build a farm
and I take a hundred acres of land and I
say I'm gonna build a farm one has way
more potential but the heart and the
more potential you have this is the
mistake you made you thought that that
means potential equals less work
intelligence equals less work if you
really study it it means the exact
opposite you have you have a great great
burden on your shoulders Milo because I
believe you you are capable of greatness
I really do yeah but I think that that
thought should not make your life easy I
think that thought should [ __ ]
terrify you mm-hmm because the prospect
of failure is like catastrophic that if
you have a hundred acres of land and
that you're supposed to build a farm
with that that if you [ __ ] up they're
going to be a hundred times as many
people who go hungry then if you have
low potential mm-hmm that capability and
responsibility are one in the same this
is the law of karma right to whom much
is expected much is given much is
expected because that's the only way it
works it is silly to expect someone if
you have ten loaves of bread you can
feed ten people if you have one loaf of
bread unless you're Jesus
you can only feed one person and so Milo
if I had one kind of bit of advice for
you it's to re-examine how you view
yourself re-examine what your
opportunities are and re-examine your
sense of disillusion and disillusionment
or disappointment I need to I think
you've got to completely reformulate
this and think a little bit about
potential as a burden think a little bit
about you know the reason that you
failed is not because and this also is
kind of where ego comes in and what like
you compare yourself to other people and
people tell you that you're intelligent
and all that kind of stuff is that in
order for you to achieve you're looking
at 100 acres of land and what you're
doing is you're saying I was unable to
cultivate these 100 acres and you're
sometimes kind of saying that it should
be just as easy as someone who has one
acre of land some in some weird way I
don't know how else to
playing that but I think your mind is
I'm actually making an unfair comparison
I think that you should cut yourself
some slack because if you are smart and
if you do have resources you know that's
actually gonna require a lot more work
for you to like bring that to fruition
mm-hmm and I think maybe the comparison
that you're making is you're saying that
okay like cultivating one acre of land
should be easy if I have a hundred acres
and so maybe you're making you're making
some weird comparison which I think at
the end of the day is unfair and I think
what you should do is is really
understand that like you're trying to
build a mansion and if you have more
resources that mansion is even bigger
and let that sort of you know let that
be a struggle instead of an opportunity
and the odd thing is that if it becomes
a struggle I think that that's going to
lead to the mental fortitude that you're
talking about that's gonna lead to
realistic expectations of what you're
capable of and realistic expectations of
how far you need to go and hopefully
it'll start to address your
disillusionment because the
disillusionment comes from the idea that
a hundred acres of land is is like
easier to cultivate than one acre of
land mm-hmm thoughts questions
yeah that makes sense
like I think do a certain extent I don't
know like I don't you just cut out sorry
can you hear me yeah yeah I totally
understand what you're saying about like
just needing a shift in the way I view
myself sometimes I imagine if like like
Terry Crews or somebody just like
possessed me and entered my body like
obviously my life would be a lot
different than it is now if they were to
just start being me in my body so it's
clearly just a matter of like mental
expectation and a certain level well
where does that train of thought leave
you how do you feel about yourself when
you think about that like I mean this is
something that I kind of intellectually
understand but maybe something haven't
really embodied including a lot of what
you've been saying which is just that
you know a shift in perspective will can
lead to a lot of hold on oh don't get
away from my question how does it make
you feel about yourself when you think
about the Terry Crews inhabiting your
body Oh dad like like I'm not the same
thing with like kind of squandering what
I have you know that that same real
house of like you know not not utilizing
what I have and what
I've been given yep so the hardest
battles that we fight are the ones that
we fight against ourselves mm-hmm and
the reason is because like we're always
the winner and we're always the loser
yeah and I think you really need to
recalibrate how hard a mental shift is
fixing something in the external world
is way easier than fixing something in
the internal world and I don't think
that most people and are most of us
right and I'm talking about twitch chat
and and Gen Z or whatever we don't
really understand that or accept that we
don't accept we don't we do not
acknowledge for ourselves that changing
yourself is actually like really hard we
think that a mental shift because it
sounds easy and it looks easy should be
easy because we look at someone like
Terry Crews and he makes it look so easy
yeah and we look at ourselves and we say
we are not like him man it's so easy he
just gets up every day like all you got
to do is just do it I just need to get
up every day mm-hmm right but it's hard
and we don't we don't forgive ourselves
and we don't practice any amount of self
compassion for failing to do what is
difficult we have a perception that it's
easy but I'm telling you guys so just to
give you an example when I tried to
become a monk at the age of 21 my
teachers told me that I had to finish
school so they said we'd love to have
you but come back when you're 30 and I
was a little bit disappointed and they
said you have to finish school and then
you have to go get a doctoral degree and
then I was kind of confused I was like
what do I do I have to become like a
doctor of some kind so I had like two or
three mentors one of them was a
neuroscientist trained at Cal Tech the
other one was a quantum physicist and
these were my two spiritual teachers and
I was like why do I need to get like
they're like you need to go get a PhD or
MD or JD or something and then come back
when you're 30 and I was like why
and they said that anything that you do
in the in the material world is gonna be
one-tenth as difficult as what you do in
the spiritual world any external
accomplishment that you set your mind to
is gonna be infinitely easier than any
internal accomplishment that you set
your mind to internal growth is actually
the most difficult thing that's why
self-actualization is at the top of
Maslow's hierarchy of needs it's the
hardest to achieve it's not actually the
easiest and we don't understand that so
I set a goal to myself that I was gonna
become the best physician I possibly
could and I set that goal not because I
wanted to become the best possible
physic air about being a good physician
I just realized unless I can become a
really really good physician I'm gonna
fail at what my real goal is becoming a
physician is about is training for me
it's not the end and I decided I wanted
to become a monk and sure enough I did a
good job so you know ended up as a
Harvard Andy and I will still tell you
guys I know this is gonna be so hard to
hear but I think accomplishing what I
did in the material world is still a
fraction of the difficulty is like the
internal change that I had to accomplish
right so when we look at someone who's
materialistically successful we look at
that as hard but I want you guys to just
think about this for a second for Milo
for you to become a harvard-trained
physician is that gonna be what do you
have to change something on the outside
world or something on the inside world
both absolutely which one do you think
is gonna be harder internal absolution
but do you treat yourself that way
maybe I mean because it's the it's the
internal kind of personality that I have
that gets the most [ __ ] from like my
Egon stuff that's the one who's saying
like oh you've squandered these
opportunities yep you know you're yeah
yeah so you probably also have a some
scar there which if we if we have a
chance to talk again I think it's worth
exploring where the origin of your
you're you're kind of complex around
squandering opportunity comes from
mmm-hmm does that make sense yeah I
don't think that's that's not really you
that's like an emotional trauma that you
have that says Milos a [ __ ] who
squanders opportunities do you think
that's potentially from a past life ABS
past life I have no idea that's why I'm
saying it requires a conversation for us
to dig into yeah right but but I'm
sensing within you like almost like in
in the round table of your mind one of
the nights at the table is this complex
of squandering opportunity yes that is a
funny image yeah so you've got like a
bunch of Milo's who are trying to get
[ __ ] done and then there's just one guy
who's just like [ __ ] you guys you
squandered all your opportunities and
then sometimes he just dominates the
table he's played by Danny DeVito
absolutely so good he's so physically
small but fills up the room so so we're
so profoundly yeah oh that's a good one
yeah that's five had kind of stuff
anyway thoughts questions are you
talking like wrap up questions or
questions of what we just how is he lost
okay
let me first ask me where do you think
we are in terms of the you know this the
conversation so look we're like do you
feel like you want to go for a while or
do you feel like we've kind of covered
some good stuff like where do you feel
like where are we between zero and and a
hundred percent this has all been very
useful and nourishing for me mentally I
could totally stop here I do have a
couple things that I would like to
address and those could like potentially
keep us going for a while sure because
they're kind of very tangential to okay
what we've been talking about so the
first is about you you went to like an
ashram and you your Dharma right now is
to just be an incredible position and to
do AoE healing for as many people as
possible
correct not really but sure so I don't
think that my Dharma is to be an
incredible physician right so your
Dharma is not being about an incredible
anything so first of all right so
incredible has to do with the outcome
it's not about action right so like like
let's just think about that for a second
so my Dharma is simply to try to help I
think you guys more so than even be a
physician I think my my physician
training has been has been training for
the final boss of my Dharma which is to
help you all my autonomous impo it is to
help you okay is there like is there
something that that is building up to
like do you think you're gonna go at any
point and and go back to the ashram and
and read about yourself yeah like is
there is there kind of
more of an endgame that you have yes so
I think when my Dharma is complete then
I will go back to the ash tree so my
Dharma being complete is gonna happen in
a couple of ways one is that if
something catastrophic happens and I
lose my wife and my two kids I'm gonna
become a monk if I feel like you guys
are doing okay or people arise who can
do the work that I am doing so that I
don't have to worry about doing it
myself then I could go in that direction
I have multiple Donna's right so I have
kids so I can't disappear because I'm
responsible for their upbringing and
financial security and things like that
I would love it if so in my heart of
hearts I would love to go back to
studying and learning myself but I feel
like I don't have time for that so the
other thing to understand is that when
we think about tottemo we think about
finding your tarma as if it's like one
parma so the Dharma evolved over time
mm-hmm so this is only my Dharma for now
and for people who are looking for their
Dharma it's not like you have to find
the one thing that is your Dharma so
what is your Dharma today
what is your daughter my now so I think
like your and I think the majority of
you guys are in something called
brahmacari ashram so I gotta make a
video about these which is that you guys
are in the training phase you guys are
in the learning phase because you're
you're not prepared to do [ __ ] like you
guys have to understand that in order
for me to do this Dharma I had to train
for 15 years and during those 15 years
like I thought I was gonna be a lot of
things that I was not originally it was
a monk then it was a doctor and then
before was a doctor was originally I was
gonna be an oncologist and you know save
lives and then I had to go through the
struggle of quote-unquote not being a
real doctor by being a psychiatrist
because psychiatrists aren't real
doctors and I might you know had to deal
with ORS and things like that and then I
was gonna be a psychiatrist and now I
realized actually like psychiatrist is
not I mean that's just my background
mm-hm but what I want to do is this yeah
well you're very good at it
thank you
does that answer your question
yes it does
question 2 I read this book about Kriya
yoga okay and I wonder if you have any
thoughts on specifically Kriya yoga what
is your understand why don't we why
don't we start by explaining what Kriya
Yoga is so I am confuzzled about like a
Korea is like a repetition okay that
right
sure so Korea has one root in the word
action yes and and the the like it's
kind of separate from hatha yoga hmm
which is like the kind of westernized
version of yoga truth or the one that
the West is kind of adopted rather very
good good and like it seems to be
primarily about like it is very chakra
focused and very breath focused mm-hmm
and it's been a difficult book to kind
of digest there's a ton of like there's
a glossary in the back of all the like
Sanskrit words yeah and like half of the
actual words in the book are in the
glossary like half of the light weirdest
yeah words so but I there's a there's a
YouTube channel that I watch for
spirituality a lot called actualize that
board and he talked about Kriya yoga as
being kind of the like basically the
most direct no [ __ ] kind of
enlighten
path trip for yoga and that's something
I'm very much attracted to is the
concept of spiritual enlightenment okay
Kundalini
so let's okay so I don't know exactly
what your question is but my guess is
that you just want general elucidation
about all of that yes right okay so so
this is good okay so what I'm making a
list of like videos I need to make so
let me try to answer your question let's
start with basics okay so Korea I think
has it's unscrew through tin the word
action and really uh is the systematic
process of refining and improving your
consciousness so we have this thing
called consciousness and what is
consciousness so I I don't know how to
put this but you know there are times in
your experience where you're able to
wrap your head around an understanding
right like you like it's like the light
bulb going off or you fully understand
something or you have this brilliant
idea or you connect a couple of things
and there are other times where you sort
of like remember sort of what you
understood but you don't quite
understand it now does that make sense
mm-hm and and so even today like you've
said that intellectually you're
beginning to understand how maybe like
potential is a burden instead of an
advantage and maybe you haven't really
squandered things and it's been hard for
you but your consciousness has not
wrapped its head around that concept you
can understand it intellectually but you
don't sort of understand that like you
use the word is body yeah use the word
embodied so you have an embodied to that
concept but you understand it
intellectually so the first thing to
understand is that consciousness is not
the intellect consciousness is that
thing which allows you to embody that
knowledge it's allowed it allowed a
higher state of consciousness allows you
to quote-unquote get it
if you think about how people change
people who get it start to change their
behavior and people who don't get it
start to not change their behavior or
don't change their behavior right when
you think about Terry Crews embodying
you and taking control of you what
you're essentially saying is that
someone who gets it is gonna start
taking control of me and I don't get it
so it's hard for me to change mm-hmm so
the hard thing about this whole process
is that I can share with you guys
information but I can't make you get it
you can lead a horse to water yeah you
can't make them drink so part of what I
try to do is like help people get it
because that's where change comes from
and sometimes what I basically try to do
is cultivate like a certain kind of
consciousness and those are the
quote-unquote breakthroughs that you
guys see on stream right and everyone
like longs for that because when they
look at that they see like okay this
something has changed in this person you
guys can look at someone and you can say
like something has changed in this
person is that happen to you yet on
stream today I mean I haven't had like a
mystical experience like like that guy
who was the insel quote-unquote yeah
that was a [ __ ] wire broke down and
he was like sobbing and laughing at the
same time that was like very very
beautiful yeah so hasn't happened for
you right I think we'd all be able so
it's not I've had this kind of like
building energy this whole time like it
almost feels like the sensation of like
nervousness or excitement it's like it
it's like a dispersed diffused version
of that nothing of the so you were in
the process of coalescing right as it
builds you're coalescing and
concentrating we're not there yet I
don't think we're gonna get there today
which is fine so let's just first
understand that this is what
consciousness is so Kriya yoga is in a
sense it's a direct path because the
focus is not on something else the focus
is on
what are the practices that refine our
consciousness what are the practices
that enhance our consciousness that's
what Kriya Yoga is about so in some ways
it is a very direct path but I want you
guys to understand that you know saying
one path of yoga is more direct than
another path of yoga isn't of itself a
comparison and therefore false there is
no better path of yoga than they're just
different kinds of yoga just like there
are different kinds of people it's kind
of like saying which job is the best
it's like there isn't a best job it
depends on the person so Kriya yoga is
just kind of a systematic process of
refining one's consciousness and I think
it is a relatively speaking a direct
path it is also relatively speaking very
difficult yeah cuz you're directly
engaging with the stuff it's kind of
like you know it there's a certain
purity of it which makes it more potent
but that purity also makes it more
difficult like you can't it's kind of
like saying you know rock climbing is a
more direct workout than climbing stairs
like you're gonna like you're gonna get
more in shape by rock climbing than you
will by climbing stairs yeah but it's
also way [ __ ] harder to do and it
doesn't mean that it's actually the best
path because climbing stairs is like
pretty doable and we can start low and
go slow and you can kind of get there in
the end
yeah so is rock climbing better or is
using a stair stepper like better
there's just two different exactly so is
one more correct yes but it also means
that it's more difficult yeah so let's
talk for a second about hatha yoga so
Hut or Hut is translated the Sun script
word for adamantite right so like it
yeah right so Hut is is about severity
Hut is about directness
it's about steadiness and it's kind of
like physical so hearty Yoga is also
pretty badass
Hachi Yoga is the idea that you can just
use your [ __ ] body to get enlightened
all this [ __ ] consciousness [ __ ]
and this thinking and contemplation and
enlightenment and coalescing of energies
and chakras and OH
and be in touch with yourself in
essential oils hotter yoga's like [ __ ]
that we are gonna train your body until
you become enlightened and that's enough
just body body body body body the reason
that it's expanded so easily in the West
is because Kriya Yoga is hard to do and
we are so spiritually starved is a
population that hot to yoga gives us
like it's a very easy sequence of things
that you can start doing that helps
people like feel better in weird ways
that they don't even understand so hot
yoga is very accessible I don't think of
it as inferior I used to but I've come
to realize that that's just [ __ ]
arrogance and ego and that there is a 26
year old woman named Stephanie who is
just as likely at becoming enlightened
by going to a yoga studio five days a
week as I am despite all of my extensive
hardcore going to India [ __ ] right she
can just do yoga and not understand what
the [ __ ] she's doing she can still get
enlightened not any better or worse than
I am
so hot yoga is good because it's
accessible it's easy you don't have to
you know and it you can still go
hardcore because like that's where all
the human pretzel stuff comes in right
so to do the Basia for an hour I'll show
you guys a particular posture like
towards the end of stream right which
you guys can try that's gonna be our
meditative practice for the day so you
guys can try to do the traditional
tapasya which means penance posture
which is a yoga posture or meditative
posture which has to do with the
accumulation of spiritual energy teach
you a relatively direct version of that
okay so that's what hatha yoga is so you
understand what Kriya Yoga is and what
hatha yoga is yeah any questions about
that so far
um I I don't I think it was you who said
this in a previous video or stream but
you said that Yoga is like preparation
for meditation does that sound familiar
yep so what that so yoga does not
actually mean yeah so Yoga is not what
is not Hutta yoga right so a Sun which
is postures physical postures so when
you go to a yoga studio you're not doing
yoga what you're
doing is a senora sauna mm-hmm we just
translate that as yoga but that's not
really what yoga is the root word of
yoga's video what is yoga the root word
of yoga is huge which means union or
yoke so this is kind of what I love
about Sun script is like you know a lot
of the stuff a lot of realizations are
kind of paradoxical like when you really
understand something it's sort of
paradoxical yeah like potential is not
really an advantage it's a burden which
is kind of paradoxical and I think the
closer that you get to truly
understanding something the more
paradoxical it kind of becomes even
though you understand it so what is yoga
so yoga is who comes from the Sanskrit
word huge which means union or yoke and
that's kind of weird because yoke is not
y ou LK it's y ou ke do you know what a
yoke is like a yoke that pulls a wagon
or exactly exactly so it's y ou ke like
so a yoke is something that binds the
wagon to like the cow or the buffalo or
the bull or the horse right it's yoked
it's bound so yoga is and it also means
Union which is sort of bound or unbound
any what what that means is is that Yoga
is the process of becoming one with the
infinite so there's this idea and yoga
that we have an individual soul and that
the individual soul is a piece of
something called Barham admin which is
the universal soul so that the basic
unit of existence is consciousness and
that we sort of separate from the cosmic
consciousness to become an individual
unit of consciousness which is like a
self and the goal of yoga is to rejoin
with like a droplet that gets pulled out
of the ocean
- like rejoin with the ocean you know if
we kind of think about it like when a
droplet separates so are there droplets
in the ocean yeah really I I mean
I guess a droplet is defined by by its
distinction it's barriers excellent
right yeah so that is a moment of
consciousness right so you repeat it and
then you stopped and you thought and
you've learned something so the droplet
only exists outside of the ocean and
when a droplet goes back into the ocean
what happens to the droplet non-duality
what does that mean speak plainly it is
reabsorbed into itself which is its
natural form yes so if I pull a droplet
out of the ocean again is it the same as
the droplet before no is it different
from the droplet before the individual
molecules possibly are possibly right so
the short answer is possibly so what is
the relation between two droplets maybe
there's something the same maybe there's
something different so this is what they
mean by Atman and Paramatma
so you were an individual person and
you've kind of separated from something
and yoga is the process of rejoining
that thing that's the true self okay and
that's why I like in any way hard to
understand this stuff you really have to
experience it so yoga is the process of
rejoining that thing that's what it
means by Union and at the same time it
is also the process of unyoke injure
self so it's the process of B becoming
unbound to this person that you are in
this life so when we think about the
identity and the ego generally speaking
we become happier as we become unbound
from ourselves when you get caught up in
being popular in high school you're very
bound to your identity you're trapped by
it and it [ __ ] sucks
as you become unbound from your identity
or your ego you start to chill out and
you start to enjoy things more so Yoga
is the process of becoming unbound and
at the same time becoming joined with
something else
so it's kind of like binding and bun
unbinding at the same time mm-hmm okay
so there are many paths to get to Yoga
Kriya Yoga is one hot - Yoga is another
and you just have to figure out what's
kind of right for you mm-hmm now chakras
involve more Kundalini Yoga so Kundalini
Yoga is sort of the the path of so you
can think about it this way there are a
thousand like how how many ways are
there for a droplet to get back in the
ocean basically right so you can become
rain you can become river you can become
mist you can you know there are all
kinds of ways you can be carried people
can dump you in the ocean there are a
lot of different ways to rejoin and
that's what the different paths of yoga
is reine better than the river no it's a
dumb question different yeah it's like
just it doesn't even compute right so is
Kriya yoga better than hot yoga not
necessarily it's just you have to figure
out what it is it sounds to me like
you're not ready for Kriya yoga yet so
Kriya Yoga is an advanced practice and I
would say that people should start with
basic practices even if you guys want to
get to the hardcore [ __ ] which I'm with
you a hundred percent because I love the
hardcore [ __ ] I have in like I mean now
less so but for a long time I had kind
of this ego thing where I want to do
like hardcore spirituality and go to an
ashram instead of go to a yoga studio
where like Stephanie and Michelle are
doing their Osun and then getting like
their bleach blonde hair dye hair right
yeah that's like part of the paradox
isn't it yeah all of it is the entire
pursuit is ego even the pursuit of like
you know removing your ego and yes
returning - yes
so so I would say that for you Milo
you're your biggest step is actually
probably going to a humdrum yoga class
go into what you could humdrum yoga
class okay right so I think you need to
go there you need to do those practices
not only will it help you but you'll
have to grapple with your ego and you'll
have to admit that you have to go the
slow route just the same as everyone
else instead of ordering that secret
power book
the secret power that like that will
accelerate a [ __ ] no man I'm all for
forbidden knowledge and all that good
stuff I love that kind of stuff but you
know just start low and go slow and I'll
teach you a practice today if you want
to go hardcore okay does that answer
your questions yeah 100%
okay all right so shall we transition to
practice sure okay so I'm gonna teach
you guys the bus yeah okay so this is
gonna be hard to explain and I can't
hear you now okay
yeah so your your can you hear me
not oh you have headphones okay so your
heel and leg should be above your knee
on your inner thigh good
all right so practice that and then you
can go to the other side
yeah so you guys should try this at home
give it a shot so breathe my little
breathe it'll make it easier deep breath
in and deep breath out there you go just
make sure you keep breathing stability
comes from breath look at that all you
have to do is breathe [ __ ] weird but
just keep doing it you guys see that let
go of the tension focus on your breath
and see what your body is capable of
beautiful
if you're having difficulty just focus
on your breath
hold the position go ahead and switch
over to the other side right so no
preparatory practice for us today no
basic asana and breathe if you want to
make it easier on yourself you can open
your eyes because your your brain has
three different circuits that regulate
balance
eyes will help eyes open will help you
balance continue breathing and now relax
close your eyes let your arms come down
leg come down and just feel your body
just sit in the space of your mind
notice what your Brock is doing
go ahead and come back hardcore enough
for you yeah that'll do how was it a
hardcore hardcore part is like doing
that every [ __ ] day doing anything
every pick [ __ ] day I think it's the
really tricky aspect so the Basia is
good because it is hard so I think this
is a very good practice to train
yourself to do something every day I
don't know how else do I feel like the
Basia makes it the amount of focus that
you gained from doing that the bus your
practice what you really are doing is it
requires like a full forced
concentration of the mind and that kind
of XP gain like levels up your ability
to like stick with something does that
make sense it's like a psycho somatic
spiritual practice that I think like
literally boosts your like willpower so
it's like it's a powerful technique that
is designed to accumulate energy like
spiritual energy and then the more
spiritual energy you accumulate the
easier it is to manifest things in the
real world and if we think about doing
something every day like those those
things that are that are manifest when
something when your intentions become a
reality that requires where you smiling
know what don't worry well okay when you
think about manifesting a reality it
requires like focus every day so the
bossiest sort of directly allows you to
like gets you closer to manifestation
okay questions before we wrap up for the
day
all right one more so I meditate every
day I've meditated before stream man I
am like all I do is just sit and try and
focus on my breath to the point where
like I have no thoughts I used to like I
used to kind of be in that space be able
to kind of be in like a um
a mindful I think my bliss is better
worth and mindful but a mindless a
mindless state for like like three to
five seconds at a time maybe when I when
I really have my routine going in
college and lately I'm not sure if it
has anything to do with like the
medication I'm taking or anything but
it's almost impossible to I mean I've
been meditating every day for like three
months and it's almost impossible to
kind of return to that space yeah so
what was your experience what was your
mind doing what was happening within you
during that the Bastia practice during
what we I don't know so I hang tension
yeah so think about that for a second
right when when are you not aware of
what you're when can you not remember
what your mind is doing when can you not
remember what your mind is doing yeah
when can you not remember what your mind
was doing let's put it that way to be
more precise uh when you weren't
conscious absent the time right so when
your mind was not active or was not
awake so I think that that the focusing
on the breath practice is too simple for
you like you can continue doing it if
you want but if you're interested in
Kriya yoga you need more intensive
meditation practices that
force the focus of your car the
concentration of your mind and I think
you were concentrating very very heavily
with very little mental activity during
that the bus your practice which is why
you don't really remember thinking about
stuff right you weren't like thinking
about the weather or whatever your sly
smile a few seconds ago were like those
are all false you weren't doing that it
was just a struggle and like your mind
was the position of your body was
demanding the focus of your mind it's
like we don't have time to think about
anything we're trying to just keep it
together and then you may have sent like
a direction to your mind you could say
okay breathe and then as you breathe
things calm down but like that's exactly
what you need you need a meditative
practice that demands the attention of
your consciousness and your focus yeah
and it's not
you shouldn't have to struggle to do it
like it's not a struggle because it you
just you can't [ __ ] if I were to tell
you so get up again do that the bus your
practice
okay so like your mind is pretty active
right now so close your eye never you
need to to hold it focus on breathing
and now tell me about the last match of
war three you played when tauren
chieftain with head honors what's
happening to you failing to balance good
so let your balance return whatever you
need to good
what was the enemy hero in that match
how did the match go I lost
tell me about over the the history of
warfare have you had a favorite patch
okay so what is your mind what do you
notice within yourself as I'm asking you
these questions a lot of tension my body
okay so I would imagine that there are
periods of intense focus that it's
almost like like what you're doing is
throwing a ball up in the air and trying
to do something like when I ask you a
question it's like you're throwing a
ball up in the air and you're trying to
answer it before your attention returns
to the body does that make sense yeah
yep so come back down so it's
interesting right like that try as you
might to activate your mind your answers
were [ __ ] slow like you were saying
like one or two words and if I ask you
about like your experiences in War three
now I'm sure you would be fluent in it
but your mind is like you're trying to
like jumpstart your mom
but the practice is like no [ __ ] we
don't have time for your mind right now
so that's what a meditative practice
should be the purpose of asana and this
is why Austen is so good is because it
automatically you don't have a choice it
makes it easy for you to concentrate and
then like the second your mind starts
thinking it's like you start wobbling
and you were getting better at it
because you were getting better at
almost throwing it up okay I'm gonna
have a thought and then back to focus
I'm gonna have a thought and back to
focus and if you think about a
mindfulness practice it's the opposite
it's lots and lots of lots of thoughts a
little bit of focus lots and lots and
lots of lots of thoughts a little bit of
focus yeah and so meditation is not
supposed to be hard like if you
understand meditation and so I think the
biggest problem with meditation is that
people learned a certain kind of
meditation and we're taught by gurus who
understood meditation and then they
became certified teachers and started
teaching the protocol and they lost the
knowledge of how to teach meditation
because we care about certifications and
if you get if you take this eight-week
course then you are a meditation teacher
and you can go and teach others and they
all teach the same technique the same
techniques they inject the same
techniques because and that's what
mindfulness is mindfulness is like one
of the thousand different techniques of
meditation and if you learn the right
technique of meditation you can [ __ ]
try to start your mind and it's gonna
stop it's not gonna work it's like your
battery is dead so do the bus yeah all
right okay
questions thoughts I love you love you
too man
good luck well you're most welcome
we're rooting for you come back and be a
success story for us keep going oh thank
you
also last thing I was just I was
supposed to talk to you about
intelligence I think you are intelligent
I think you just need to understand that
you're it doesn't have to do with the
ego I think you're very smart
but that's separate it's just a tool
it's like one of the stats on your
character sheet you know you don't have
to get egotistical about it but you also
don't need to think of yourself as not
intelligent because that too is
egotistical
Yeah right so like your intelligence is
what it is in the same way that your
height is what it is and that your you
know your eyes are the color that they
are it is just one attribute of you it
is just a fact it does not need to be
exciting nor does it need to be
disappointing neither of those things
yeah I just wish it wasn't such a
worshipped quality beautifully put what
do you mean by that can you explain that
it's just like a dick swinging contest
basically sometimes just trying to seem
smarter than someone else and it's a
waste of energy I think the reason that
it's worshipped is actually a little bit
of a mistake because I think we use
intelligence is an umbrella term for all
kinds of capabilities that different
people have but really what we're saying
is capable and we just call it an
intelligent but it's all kinds of things
it's hard work it's willpower its
humility its practice its intelligence
but we just call them oh he's so smart
what that really means is good at
something mm-hmm but anyway you know
when you look at someone who's fluent in
a language they you say oh that person
is so smart you don't see the thousands
of hours that they put in it's not that
they're smart yeah I practice one quote
from this cria book see if I can find it
it was something like the dedicated
person of average intelligence is
capable of much more than the lazy or
erratic genius absolutely right and
twitch at could have told you that
because we're all erratic Eunice's and
no one none of us have ever [ __ ]
anywhere sure real yeah so we'll stop on
that sentiment thanks for coming on Milo
just working and keep doing what you're
doing I think you're on a good path just
keep trucking all right thank you so
much doctor take care